Demonstrate discovery of manual routing between radio nodes and a host
computer.

**WARNING**: This application is a work in progress.  At this time, the
memory requirements of PPP and Ieee154 make it difficult to accomplish the
task, and the demonstration uses only link-local addresses.

In a full OSIAN IP solution, a node that provides both a PPP and an Ieee154
interface would be configured to route between those two links, allowing
(for example) a control program running on a Linux host to directly contact
nodes in the radio network.

In the absence of OSIAN routing support, the same effect can be done
manually.  This application assumes the following IP addresses:

fe80::fd41:4242:e88:2 host.ppp.osian host.ppp.osian
fe80::fd41:4242:e88:3 device.ppp.osian device.ppp.osian

One node is configured as dual-homed, by building it with the gw extra.
This is the node assigned the "device.*" names listed above.  Its address on
the ieee154.osian network is statically configured from its ODI.

Additionally, an arbitrary number of nodes can exist only on the radio
network, with static addresses autoconfigured in the fd41:4242:e88:2::/64
network in the ieee154.osian domain.

Multicast group ff02::1 is the pre-defined all-hosts group for the local
link.  Multicast group ff02::2 is the pre-defined all-routers group for the
local link.  See RFC4291.

The gateway node is dual-homed.  At any time that the PPP network is up, the
blue LED is lit.  Periodically the node multicasts on the radio network the
status of the PPP link.  If that link (bridge) is up, the message includes
the IID for the host computer's interface as bridged to to the radio
network.  This can be used by radio-only nodes to send unicast messages
directly to the host computer.

Standard nodes use only the radio network.  When a node comes on-line, it
multicasts a message to port 50133 on the all-routers group.  If a gateway
node is available, it replies to this with a unicast message indicating the
gateway status.  The source address will subsequently be used as the
gateway.  The standard node processes both multicast and unicast gateway
status messages and reflects the gateway status in its blue LED as well.

Process:

* Program a gateway node:
  
  make surf osian gw install bsl,/dev/ttyUSB0

* Program a remote node:

  make surf osian install bsl,/dev/ttyUSB1

* Bring up the PPP connection to the gateway node

  sudo OSIAN_PPPD=${OSIAN_PPPD} ${OSIAN_ROOT}/bin/osianpppd

The blue LEDs on both boards should be lit.

* Observe the console of the remote node

  stty 115200 min 1 time 5 -parenb cs8 < /dev/ttyUSB1
  cat /dev/ttyUSB1

* Reset the remote node.

  You should see log messages indicating how it joins the network,
  multicasts for the gateway, and reeceives a response from the gateway.
  LEDs on the gateway will indicate the request and response processed from
  the radio messages.
